Status of this Memo

   This RFC specifies an IAB standards track protocol for the Internet
   community, and requests discussion and suggestions for improvements.
   Please refer to the current edition of the "IAB Official Protocol
   Standards" for the standardization state and status of this protocol.
   Distribution of this memo is unlimited.

Summary

   TFTP is a very simple protocol used to transfer files.  It is from
   this that its name comes, Trivial File Transfer Protocol or TFTP.
   Each nonterminal packet is acknowledged separately.  This document
   describes the protocol and its types of packets.  The document also
   explains the reasons behind some of the design decisions.

Acknowlegements

   The protocol was originally designed by Noel Chiappa, and was
   redesigned by him, Bob Baldwin and Dave Clark, with comments from
   Steve Szymanski.  The current revision of the document includes
   modifications stemming from discussions with and suggestions from
   Larry Allen, Noel Chiappa, Dave Clark, Geoff Cooper, Mike Greenwald,
   Liza Martin, David Reed, Craig Milo Rogers (of USC-ISI), Kathy
   Yellick, and the author.  The acknowledgement and retransmission
   scheme was inspired by TCP, and the error mechanism was suggested by
   PARC's EFTP abort message.

   The May, 1992 revision to fix the "Sorcerer's Apprentice" protocol
   bug [4] and other minor document problems was done by Noel Chiappa.

   This research was supported by the Advanced Research Projects Agency
   of the Department of Defense and was monitored by the Office of Naval
   Research under contract number N00014-75-C-0661.

1. Purpose

   TFTP is a simple protocol to transfer files, and therefore was named
   the Trivial File Transfer Protocol or TFTP.  It has been implemented
   on top of the Internet User Datagram protocol (UDP or Datagram) [2]



Sollins                                                         [Page 1]
 
RFC 1350                    TFTP Revision 2                    July 1992


   so it may be used to move files between machines on different
   networks implementing UDP.  (This should not exclude the possibility
   of implementing TFTP on top of other datagram protocols.)  It is
   designed to be small and easy to implement.  Therefore, it lacks most
   of the features of a regular FTP.  The only thing it can do is read
   and write files (or mail) from/to a remote server.  It cannot list
   directories, and currently has no provisions for user authentication.
   In common with other Internet protocols, it passes 8 bit bytes of
   data.

   Three modes of transfer are currently supported: netascii (This is
   ascii as defined in "USA Standard Code for Information Interchange"
   [1] with the modifications specified in "Telnet Protocol
   Specification" [3].)  Note that it is 8 bit ascii.  The term
   "netascii" will be used throughout this document to mean this
   particular version of ascii.); octet (This replaces the "binary" mode
   of previous versions of this document.) raw 8 bit bytes; mail,
   netascii characters sent to a user rather than a file.  (The mail
   mode is obsolete and should not be implemented or used.)  Additional
   modes can be defined by pairs of cooperating hosts.

   Reference [4] (section 4.2) should be consulted for further valuable
   directives and suggestions on TFTP.

2. Overview of the Protocol

   Any transfer begins with a request to read or write a file, which
   also serves to request a connection.  If the server grants the
   request, the connection is opened and the file is sent in fixed
   length blocks of 512 bytes.  Each data packet contains one block of
   data, and must be acknowledged by an acknowledgment packet before the
   next packet can be sent.  A data packet of less than 512 bytes
   signals termination of a transfer.  If a packet gets lost in the
   network, the intended recipient will timeout and may retransmit his
   last packet (which may be data or an acknowledgment), thus causing
   the sender of the lost packet to retransmit that lost packet.  The
   sender has to keep just one packet on hand for retransmission, since
   the lock step acknowledgment guarantees that all older packets have
   been received.  Notice that both machines involved in a transfer are
   considered senders and receivers.  One sends data and receives
   acknowledgments, the other sends acknowledgments and receives data.

   Most errors cause termination of the connection.  An error is
   signalled by sending an error packet.  This packet is not
   acknowledged, and not retransmitted (i.e., a TFTP server or user may
   terminate after sending an error message), so the other end of the
   connection may not get it.  Therefore timeouts are used to detect
   such a termination when the error packet has been lost.  Errors are
caused by three types of events: not being able to satisfy the
   request (e.g., file not found, access violation, or no such user),
   receiving a packet which cannot be explained by a delay or
   duplication in the network (e.g., an incorrectly formed packet), and
   losing access to a necessary resource (e.g., disk full or access
   denied during a transfer).

   TFTP recognizes only one error condition that does not cause
   termination, the source port of a received packet being incorrect.
   In this case, an error packet is sent to the originating host.

   This protocol is very restrictive, in order to simplify
   implementation.  For example, the fixed length blocks make allocation
   straight forward, and the lock step acknowledgement provides flow
   control and eliminates the need to reorder incoming data packets.

3. Relation to other Protocols

   As mentioned TFTP is designed to be implemented on top of the
   Datagram protocol (UDP).  Since Datagram is implemented on the
   Internet protocol, packets will have an Internet header, a Datagram
   header, and a TFTP header.  Additionally, the packets may have a
   header (LNI, ARPA header, etc.)  to allow them through the local
   transport medium.  As shown in Figure 3-1, the order of the contents
   of a packet will be: local medium header, if used, Internet header,
   Datagram header, TFTP header, followed by the remainder of the TFTP
   packet.  (This may or may not be data depending on the type of packet
   as specified in the TFTP header.)  TFTP does not specify any of the
   values in the Internet header.  On the other hand, the source and
   destination port fields of the Datagram header (its format is given
   in the appendix) are used by TFTP and the length field reflects the
   size of the TFTP packet.  The transfer identifiers (TID's) used by
   TFTP are passed to the Datagram layer to be used as ports; therefore
   they must be between 0 and 65,535.  The initialization of TID's is
   discussed in the section on initial connection protocol.

   The  TFTP header consists of a 2 byte opcode field which indicates
   the packet's type (e.g., DATA, ERROR, etc.)  These opcodes and  the
   formats of  the various types of packets are discussed further in the
   section on TFTP packets.
4. Initial Connection Protocol

   A transfer is established by sending a request (WRQ to write onto a
   foreign file system, or RRQ to read from it), and receiving a
   positive reply, an acknowledgment packet for write, or the first data
   packet for read.  In general an acknowledgment packet will contain
   the block number of the data packet being acknowledged.  Each data
   packet has associated with it a block number; block numbers are
   consecutive and begin with one.  Since the positive response to a
   write request is an acknowledgment packet, in this special case the
   block number will be zero.  (Normally, since an acknowledgment packet
   is acknowledging a data packet, the acknowledgment packet will
   contain the block number of the data packet being acknowledged.)  If
   the reply is an error packet, then the request has been denied.

   In order to create a connection, each end of the connection chooses a
   TID for itself, to be used for the duration of that connection.  The
   TID's chosen for a connection should be randomly chosen, so that the
   probability that the same number is chosen twice in immediate
   succession is very low.  Every packet has associated with it the two
   TID's of the ends of the connection, the source TID and the
   destination TID.  These TID's are handed to the supporting UDP (or
   other datagram protocol) as the source and destination ports.  A
   requesting host chooses its source TID as described above, and sends
   its initial request to the known TID 69 decimal (105 octal) on the
   serving host.  The response to the request, under normal operation,
   uses a TID chosen by the server as its source TID and the TID chosen
   for the previous message by the requestor as its destination TID.
   The two chosen TID's are then used for the remainder of the transfer.

   As an example, the following shows the steps used to establish a
   connection to write a file.  Note that WRQ, ACK, and DATA are the
   names of the write request, acknowledgment, and data types of packets
   respectively.  The appendix contains a similar example for reading a
   file.
Teams will design and implement a file transfer system based on the TFTP specification (RFC 1350) that is
available on the course website and that has been discussed in class. The system will consist of TFTP client(s)
running on one or several computers, an error simulator, and a multithreaded TFTP server that runs on a
different computer. The code will be written in Java, using the Eclipse IDE. You must design your code to
work in the lab environment provided!
Note that there will be three separate programs: the client(s), the server, and the error simulator(s). Each
program will run as a separate Win-32 process, and the programs will communicate via DatagramSocket
objects. In “normal” mode, only the client and server programs will run. In “test” mode, all three programs will
be used.
You must be able to run multiple main programs (projects) concurrently. See the Reference Material on
the course web site for hints in doing this in Eclipse.
Your team's code must demonstrate good programming style, and be well documented. For examples of
“industrial quality” Java code, have a look at Sun's Java coding conventions, which can be found on the Oracle
Web site.
All team members should be familiar with all aspects of the code and diagrams for your group. Working in (at
least) pairs for the programming, debugging, and developing the diagrams is recommended. If any team
members are not pulling their weight, please notify the TAs and/or instructor as early in the term as possible
so that this can be remedied.Ward is the second work in the Parahumans series, and reading Worm first is strongly recommended.  A lot of this won’t make sense otherwise and if you do find yourself a fan of the universe, the spoilers in Ward will affect the reading of the other work.

Ward is not recommended for young or sensitive readers.

The Glow-worm chapters were a teaser event leading up to Worm 2.  They aren’t required reading but offer flavor and additional angles by which to view certain characters.  They take the form of forum posts, chat conversations and emails.

They’re best described as a kind of a post-epilogue, pseudo-prologue bridge between the series.  Those who read them on the Worm site shouldn’t feel the need to read them again – they’re included here for convenience’s sake, with a few readability improvements.

If you’re not interested or find this hard to read, click here to jump to chapter 1.

⊙

Welcome to the Parahumans Online message boards.
You are currently logged in, Point_Me_@_The_Sky
You are viewing:
•  Threads made in the last day OR
•  Threads marked as important.
•  Thread OP is displayed.
•  Ten comments per page.
•  Unread messages in private message history
•  Threads and private messages are ordered chronologically.
This account is a Cape in Civilian Clothes (Abbreviated CICC) account.  Your linked account is a verified Cape account.  You may receive alerts if it is believed that you are compromising either identity.
Both linked accounts are in good standing.

⊙

♦  Topic:  We’re Back Online
In:  Boards ► Parahumans Online
Hope_In_Pithos (Admin)
Posted on August 15th, Y1:

To call the efforts of everyone involved heroic would be grossly understating things. This IT project required the efforts of seventy eight PHO staff members, employees of Stateside Online, former officials of the US government, former members of the United States space program, members of international space programs, the Guild (Masamune in particular), and numerous independent experts and volunteers. At a time when we’re all stretched thin and there is an incredible amount of work still to be done, seven hundred and eight individuals devoted spare time and valuable resources to get us and six other partners online.

Things will be clunky and frustrating.  For most, with congestion being what it is, things will be slow enough that people can get a cup of coffee and come back to find the page hasn’t fully loaded.  We’ve stripped away a bit of the polish and the gloss: the header images, badge graphics and the ability to include video or images are gone for now, to keep things simple and easy.  We will be moderating very carefully to ensure nobody disrupts anyone’s ability to access the site.  It will be painful.  Help each other, be patient, and contribute the best you can.

In so many ways, things will be frustrating, slow, and painful.  Care, helpfulness, patience, and contribution will make literal worlds of difference.  In so many ways.

But we’re back.  Stay tuned for bigger, better things.  Bear with us as we sort through it all.

(Showing Page 34 of 34)

►  I♥Lethe
Replied on August 16th, Y1:
@ Dgators – Generally, you want to be careful because you won’t get any updates to OS360 or other PC OSes, no patches to your phone.  There is no tech support and there is little recourse for anyone hit with malware. Plausibly there’s a lot of desperate people out there who see that the defenses are down and we’re in early days.  It’s probably easier for someone to come up with new means of attack than it is for anyone to roll out a proper patch.  Presumably if they wanted to infect systems or get access they would want to do it now when it would probably let them get access to things that follow.

►  KillDestroyKiss (Library)
Replied on August 17th, Y1:
Library project is moving ahead! Plenty of people brought laptops and phones and we’re piecing things together by loading from cache.  It is more zombie net than real net but we’re finding things. There are more coming but people want to delete their search histories before they hand their computers over. Because porn.

Downside is now a lot more people know about the net access at the library. Hours-long wait times Q.Q

►  Point_Me_@_The_Sky
Replied on August 17th, Y1:
I have access through the portal at the east of the city.  When I go through I’ve been doing loops through the old neighborhoods to see what I can scrounge up.  If you need something to fill major gaps I can try looking.  If not, I’m going to see if I can round off my collection.  Would be nice to have a good excuse if I get accused of smuggling or looting tho

►  boaty5
Replied on August 17th, Y1:
what collection?

►  Point_Me_@_The_Sky
Replied on August 17th, Y1:
Any/all of: Masque/Costumes Under Clothes/Heroine/Shine On

►  boaty5
Replied on August 17th, Y1:
fuck that. I regret asking. screw the capes. screw everything about celebrating the capes. they. failed. us.
Site administrators discussed this post.  We’re leaving up the first half as we feel it is important for people to process and address these feelings and sentiments.  We’ve removed the second half (personal insults) and delivered one infraction.

►  Point_Me_@_The_Sky
Replied on August 17th, Y1:
[Edit: removed this myself- I decided I don’t really want to get into this]

►  boaty5
Replied on August 17th, Y1:
just because I’m on a site about capes doesn’t mean I like them.  it means I recognize how important they are to what happened and what happens next

►  KillDestroyKiss (Library)
Replied on August 17th, Y1:
Hm!  @ Point_Me_@_The_Sky – We’re looking to get everything we can recorded digitally.  Would you be okay with letting us scan your collection?  You’re in the city?

►  Point_Me_@_The_Sky
Replied on August 17th, Y1:
100%.  I can bring it to your library.  PM me with location & times good for you.  Information is too important

End of Page.   1, 2, 3, 4, 5 … 32, 33, 34

⊙

♦  Topic:  [Headline] Refugees Barred Access
In:  Boards ► World News ► Main
Boo-chan
Posted on August 17th, Y1:

[Transcribed from print]  Conrad James Freed and his family could tell a harrowing tale of their trip across Earth Bet’s America.  They have finally reached the Northeastern Bet-Gimel portal, hearing rumor of wait times, only to be told there is a possibility they may not be allowed in at all.

They had been driving, hitchhiking and hiking for four months.

“They aren’t giving us answers,” he told Bulletin News on Saturday.

Their family had been trying to subsist on their rural property in Wisconsin when the weather took a turn for the worse.  Though it was June, Conrad says he saw snow falling on the fields where he had planted the first crop of the season.

Two days later, there would be a knock at his door.  Authorities had flown over and saw the lights of his house.  They warned him the snowfall and the groundwater was contaminated.  It would be the last straw, as the unseasonably cold weather had cut into the already thin initial harvest.

Conrad says the authorities wanted him and his family to leave right away.  “They didn’t give us a chance to pack.  One of the men even grabbed my daughter.  He bruised her wrist, he held her so hard.  I promised I would cooperate if he would only give us five minutes.  I was in shock.”

He and his wife decided to make the harrowing trip to the nearest portal without the assistance of authorities, a decision he says he made on the spur of the moment, after the manhandling of his daughter and the manner in which he was forced from his home.  “I came to regret that decision.”

Conrad’s story is far from unique.  Evacuation is still underway even two years and two months after Gold Morning.  Where things took a turn for the worse for Conrad and his family, and where an undisclosed change in policy may affect uncountable refugees from Earth Bet, is that the border agents have apparently ceased processing refugees. 

Tensions are rising and as the number of people in the refugee settlement slowly climbs and resources are stretched thinner, people are speaking out.  Conrad says, “We know there is more than enough space on the other side.  We see people coming and going but they won’t let us through or even meet us to answer our questions.  We’re willing to settle outside of the city.  I know agriculture and I know they desperately need farmers.  Even if they give us a minimum of supplies and tools, it has to be better than this.”
Ward was the subdivision of the Protectorate for those under eighteen. It’s probably no coincidence that our new protagonist was one of the few teenage heroes that were not a part of the Wards. Story-wise, this probably allows for a less biased view of the Wards, whether her view be negative or positive, despite her close interactions with them.

Ward itself has multiple meanings one of which is “a division or district of a city or town.” This could be foreshadowing some sort of ghettoisation of regions of the city either for the mundanes or parahumans as a result of tensions between the two groups.

In fantasy magic, wards are some sort of barrier or protection usually in an area. They can repel harm or unwanted influences. This fits in some ways with the previous speculation on the potential divisions between the two groups. Maybe some sort of tinkertech device is created that affects the shards in a way that repels them from areas for “normals”?

Ward can also be “a person or thing under guard, protection, or surveillance”. This can be many things but perhaps in this story, Victoria has a “ward” that she needs to protect. Perhaps she needs to protect Amy from the CUI or other organisations that desire her power.

The last major definition that I found that may be relevant to this story is “A separate room in a hospital, typically one allocated to a particular type of patient.” Maybe Victoria is still dealing with the aftereffects of Amy’s powers and needs to do something in hospitals? I don’t think this is likely, Amy probably completely/mostly fixed what she did. I think the more probably thing is the discovery of some “anti-parahuman” drug/procedure like in X-Men 3 that requires parahumans be set up in wards to forcefully or otherwise make them lost their power.
More terrorism, Gwen thought wistfully, finally finding the phone's mute button.

Slowly, synapses dulled by Moet & Chandon fired up one by one.

Red Dragon?

Red Dragon!?

Gwen checked the date, fumbling the unwieldy device with fingers that felt tender and strange.

She was sure it was September 21st, but the year appeared to be missing a decade and a half. It was 2017 when she went to sleep, but now it was 2001.

What the hell? Her mind was a ball of wool. What the hell happened to my phone? Did someone steal her phone and swap it out for a Nokia 3350? That would explain the ringtone.

But it wasn't a Nokia either. The strange device consisted of a ceramic-seeming material, and the screen looked nothing like back-lit LED.

Hell, the screen was some form of a tablet? A stone tablet? Was it paper-ink?

Did she get roofied? In her own company, at her very own corporate party? That would be absurd. Even if she did, there were security guards and trained staff that should be sober enough to send her to a hospital.

On a more sour note, her entire body felt like she had hit the cross trainer four days straight.

Had her workaholic ways and 2 AM insomnias finally caught up?

Gwen pulled her bed covers and found herself in a room that was at once familiar and alien.

Her immediate surroundings consisted of a single bed. A sloppy, cheap-looking bed duvet cover modestly covered her body. The pattern looked vaguely familiar; it was a design she had not seen for over a decade.

The room was cramped and the ceiling low and oppressive.

The heck? Isn't this my bedroom? From when I was a kid? Gwen's mind scrambled for details of her last recollections.

Where was her bedroom? Her bayside home? Her two-decade-long mortgaged house that she finally bought with sweat, blood, and less-than-honest tax returns?

The room which she now occupied had once existed in her life, but it was a relic from the distant past when she was still in high school and living with her divorced father.

A sound of scratching caught her attention, and she looked down to see her beloved dog, Rin.

"What the fuck!" Gwen pulled the sheets around her chest.

In her memory, the mutt had already passed away. She had been grief-stricken by its passing, finding solace only in the fact that she no longer suffered from its room-clearing farts.

The 'pet' that accosted her was a dog only in the generic sense of the word. It was a mutt-like creature in the shape of a Shitzu-Maltese, but it had a blue gem embedded in the middle of its adorable face.

Gwen commanded her memory to pull itself up by the bootstraps, but her mind was a scrambled mess of whites and yellows. Her rational cognisance tried to take the helm, but the rudders were missing entirely. When she again tried to orientate her bearings, what remained of her common sense mutinied.

The creature regarded Gwen with soulful brown liquid eyes and gave her cold feet a wet lick. Its tongue was rough, more akin to that of cats.

Gwen retracted her feet in apprehension.

Once again, she tried her best to ingest the scene in front of her. 
I should know this place, she told herself. Think! Gwen! Think!

In fragments, her memory came to her.

Here was her old home. Her original home. The apartment she grew up as a girl-child. There was the worn desk she piled her clothes on. There was the basket for her dirty laundry. There was the dog's basket. There was her study desk, which her father used as a Mahjong table. Upon it were her study guides.

But where she expected to see volumes on chemistry, physics, and literature, she instead saw thick bound volumes with strange names like:

Allenberg’s Primer for Astral Theory.

and

Otsu's Primer for Evokers.

Gwen felt the coming on of a sudden headache and felt a sudden throbbing of blended memories violently clashing within the confines of her fevered brain. It felt like that time she had forgotten to take her quinine tablets in Brazil and had malaria shitting on her mind for a week.

I have an aptitude test today. A stray thought struck Gwen's consciousness.

No, Gwen tried to dissuade the voice in her head. You just had a staff party where you celebrated your second year as a Consultancy. You drank and danced and forgot all about your shitty tolerance for cheap Rosè.

Today is an important day.

Another thought, unbidden, solicited her mind, accompanied by gut-wrenching anxiety that almost bowled her over.

No! Gwen fought back the acid reflux threatening to escape her oesophagus. Jesus Christ, someone must have slipped LSD into her drink. Now she was hearing voices in her head!

"Shut up!" Gwen threatened the ceiling.

The voices ceased.

She tried to collect her thoughts calmly and assess the situation.

Gwen ran her hands over the blanket covers; it was most definitely Made in China and likely from Target. Her abused teenage body knew the roughness well. She observed the methodical chaos around her; the room was a pigsty.

"Alright," she whispered to herself. Her mind remained sceptical of her new reality. Gwen pinched herself on the thighs until a welt appeared and her eyes moistened.

"Shit," she affirmed her worst fears.

The small bedroom was as stifling as she remembered.

'Click…'

Her internal monologue was interrupted by her bedroom door opening. Gwen felt her blood run cold. Trapped in a strange parallel world that was not her own, who or what could be coming through that door?

The door opened.

It was her brother, Percy, who came into the room with a face still drugged with sleep.

“Dad called and said you have to get up now,” he murmured. “It's your Awakening today.”

Gwen quietly regarded the boy before her, mindful of any buttons or cross-stitching that revealed him to be wearing a skin-suit.

Percy was her brother, an able-bodied youth with olive tanned skin and large luminous eyes. He had thick lips, taking after their absent mother, who was herself a mishmash of Chinese and South East Asian heritage.

Gwen pulled the cover over her collarbones and scowled at her brother. What kind of an idiot barges into the room of their teenage sister? She was hardly dressed to be decent in public.

"Hey! Get out of here!" Gwen yelled angry nothings at Percy; the boy yawned disinterestedly before removing himself.

Watching the door slam, Gwen pulled herself out of bed. There was a giant wall-length mirror that ran the length of the built-in-wardrobe, and Gwen took the opportunity to inspect her present condition for any deformities or, God forbid, additions.

What she saw was the reflection of a girl that was a little underfed but reasonably proportioned and filled in the right places. Gwen had the pale skin and high cheekbones of her father, but the dark hair of her oriental mother. Her eyes, hazel and speckled with yellow and green, hinted at exotic and cosmopolitan origins.

Not bad, Gwen had to conclude. She had a pleasant body to gaze upon, even if a little anorexic in places. Her figure was better than she recalled.

When Gwen had struck the big Three-Zero, she had wondered about her old teenage body. Would she have loved or loathed it? The only strangeness was her paleness. She was unusually pale, almost as if she'd rarely seen the sun. In the past, she had spent the whole summer selling ice cream in Bondi to pay for some new wardrobe, and her face, arms, and legs had acquired a healthy tan.

Gwen dug through the wardrobe and found something to wear. Here was the closet of the 00s; she reminded herself, and that she shouldn't get her hopes up.

She straight away ignored a particularly orderly section of the wardrobe. Instead, she found jeans and a white tee-shirt.

Gwen was one of those girls that had matured early.

As early as Primary School she had been mistaken for a late teenager and suffered the dubious experiences of those whose bodies developed before their minds. She was denied children’ fares at carnivals and accosted by boys who thought her older. Once, a businessman tried to proposition her, and she had to go straight to the cop-stop to report the scoundrel.

The door opened again; it was Percy.

“Why are you in your Sunday clothes?” he questioned in his youthful voice, “You need to be in your uniform for the Aptitude Test.”

A wave of nauseating nervousness struck Gwen as the words left her brother's mouth.

"Get out!" she hissed, and Percy fled.

Gwen held herself against the mirror until the buzzing went away.

I need to go to the test. An intrusive thought made itself pronounced.

"Shut up!" Gwen gritted her teeth.

It's important. Mother will be so angry if I miss it. The voice continued as if thinking to itself.

"Fine! I'll go!" Gwen forced herself to stand.

She searched through her wardrobe again and located the ironed uniform. She was horrid at chores, and her father had always been wildly negligent, so it must have been her brother who had collected and packed the laundry.

Good on you, Percy boy! Gwen made a note to thank her brother later. Gwen Googled her fragmented memory and found the blazer hanging in a separate section of the closet.

The Blackwattle High School senior uniform was a little loose around the bust but appeared otherwise handsome and prim. A grey-white tartan skirt, a navy blazer, and white blouse gave the costume the feeling of a private academy. There was a vest as well, but Gwen had forgone it for reasons of cost.

An alarm went off on her phone.

“You’re going to be late for the train!” her brother called out.

Gwen swore under her breath and opened the door to see Percy with a piece of toast packed in foil, the smell of acrid Vegemite and butter filled the air.

“Thank me later.” He grinned, revealing pearly white teeth. “And bring back lunch. I want shawarma from Fatima’s.”

“Thanks,” Gwen said, her teenage voice sounding strange as it reverberated through her skull. She had wanted more time to recollect herself, but the urgency of having to attend the Aptitude Test hastily drove her through the door.

* * *

The streets of Sydney's CBD were the same old familiar concrete and bitumen, but the transportation had shifted from the growl of fossil fuel into the thrum of glowing mana cores. For the moment, Gwen was glad that no airship sailed through the horizon like some dystopian Metropolis. For some reason, her newly amalgamated memories told her that mechanised flight remained one of the great puzzles of the age.

The journey towards Blackwattle Bay, however, was an entirely new enlightening experience. In her brave new world, trains ran on ley-lines, the means by which the city sustained its mana-constructs. In fact, mana powered all the infrastructure, the most important of which was the Shield Barriers.

A Shield what? Gwen tapped her head.

Another bout of paranoia assailed her. Unbidden memories informed her that humanity was hardly safe in this world, that despite the rule of Mageocracy over the Earth, much of it remained under the control of Demi-humans and Magical Creatures. The average man could only survive in safe enclaves, protected by magical barriers against the unknowable world beyond the shield barriers.

That's bloody horrible! Gwen felt stressed by the infodump. Apathetic to her distress, the soundless carriage silently made its way on enchanted rails into the heart of the city, and soon Gwen found herself among like-patterned uniforms walking to school.

The day was Saturday, the day of the Awakening, A.K.A the Aptitude Test.

Gwen wracked her mind for details of this 'Aptitude Test' and found the answer accompanied by a flight of butterflies fleeing her chest.

Wherein her old world had the SAT and the HSC, this world had the dreaded Projected Magical Aptitude Exam or PMAE for short. It was a make or break moment that determined whether one went on to become elites in society, or drones, working old and weary bones to maintain the city and its resource stockpiles.

What was worse was that unless one was born into a particular bloodline, the aptitude for different schools of magic was entirely random.

Each Mage had only one chance at awakening. Though the chances of becoming a Mage varied from geography to geography, the odds were 1 in a 100. Furthermore, the potential to rise to Magus, Magister and beyond were as rare as hen's teeth. The other percentile of humans were non-magical citizens, lovingly called NoMs. Here was a world where NoMs lived in the shadows of the Mages, working diligent lives as administrators, service personnel and labourers of manufactorums that churned out the necessities of life.

Mages? Magic? Gwen shook her head to make sense of her new lexicon. Where the hell had she ended up? Was this a Lord of the Rings thing?

I can't fail the test! She reminded herself.

Okay! Fine! Gwen battered away the ethereal thoughts.

Right, so this is world existed within a Magical Apartheid, Gwen bit her lower lip as the unpleasant epiphany crossed her mind. Moreover, this stupid Aptitude ordeal seemed especially dubious. Was her memory informing her that a single test determined if she would be a worker ant or an august queen?

Moreover, it was a test she had no control over.

That seemed ridiculous to Gwen, whose old world at least entertained the illusion of egalitarian meritocracy.

What of the life she'd been living only one drunken slumber ago? She had worked tirelessly to build her start-up company, collecting devoted staff over a decade of trials and tribulations. They just had their IPO, and she had renovated her bedroom by the bay. To start over, to begin again from scratch? How was that fair?

She cursed under her breath and trudged with resentment towards her destination. In the distance, the Blackwattle campus seemed more significant, more extraordinary than her memory recalled. An entire wing of buildings appeared appended to the existing sandstone facade that loomed over the bay. The Fish Market next door, the largest of its kind in Sydney, bustled with semi-magical bounty taken from the sea.

“Gwen!”

A chirpy voice called from the multitude of bobbing students walking the steep incline to the school hall.

Gwen turned to see a short, spry Asian girl rushing towards her with two imposing masses that rioted as she ran, her face rounded with adorable baby fat.

“Gwen Gwen!” The girl embraced Gwen and landed a quick peck on her cheek. “Ooo! I missed you so much! I am beyond HAPPY that we're doing the Aptitude Test in the same school!"

The overfamiliar girl was Yue, a Shanghainese girl whose family migrated from the Pearl of the China Sea - the Magical Capital of China. She had large, luminous brown eyes and prominent lashes that seemed to swallow Gwen with their softness. Her china-doll face was milk white and porcelain, punctuated by the small pink of her mouth.

The sight of a friend she had not seen for a decade stunned her into silence. Yue Bai had been her closest and dearest friend back in high school, but they had quickly drifted apart once their careers took them across different parts of the world.

“It's only been a month.” Gwen smiled back, trying not to be too obvious that the Gwen whom Yue had known wasn't in the driving seat.

Gwen felt that the alter-ego was still hoving around somewhere; not unlike the proverbial Ghost of Hamlet's father hanging over the poor Prince's shoulder.

Beside her, Yue opened her mouth and began an endless stream of small talk.

Gwen listened to her old friend chat excitedly about the latest gossip; who awakened in what. Who got picked for what scholarship. Which was the best element to pair with what School of Magic.

When the duo finally made their way into the hall, the rest of the student body was already waiting in the grand auditorium.

The headmaster and the instructors were in militant dress uniforms that reminded Gwen of decorated soldiers on ANZAC Day. She looked around the hall for more familiar faces but was quickly shuffled into place by a senior prefect.

“Students, staff, members of the chancellory, welcome to the 2001 PMAE. This exam is carried out statewide on junior-entering-senior, Year 10 students. In a moment, you will be asked to approach the dais and place your hand on the awakening crystal...”

A murmur spread across the auditorium as the officious announcement reverberated through the air. The Principal, a raven-haired man of advanced age, began to speak in a sonorous and resonating voice that boomed across the assemblage.

“Students! The Path of the Mage is glorious but fraught with danger and risk! Upon THE PATH, you will be beset by countless temptations, forbidden knowledge, and creatures horrid and terrifying. But the Path of Spellcraft is the Path of humanity, for only through Magic can man eke out their place in the world. For we are beset on all sides by forces far greater than Humanity itself. Compared to the creatures of the Wild Land, we are weak and physically vulnerable. Compared to the creatures of the Deep, we are few. Compared to the creatures of the Aether, we are mortal and fragile!"

"Yet WHY is it that Man persists upon the Earth? Why has man survived the aeons to build our civilisation where only natural selection would have won? It is because we are Mages, and we are united! We, the human race, are united in our dream of creating Eden!"

A cheer broke through the principal's oration. In the next moment, his voice took on a new intensity and volume.

"Know that this is a test not just of who you are, but also who you will be, what you aspire to be. Know that this is a test not just of what we are, but what we will be, what the human race will become generation after generation!"

Thunderous applause greeted the Principal as the student body roared their collective approval.

The Principal motioned for calm, and the cacophony ceased. Gwen clapped with those around her, not wanting to appear the stranger.

"All of you here already have affinity…. your studies in junior high have proven that you are worthy!” the Principal announced confidently, “Some of you, perhaps, may even become Magus… but know that all paths of Spellcraft are sacred, be you Citizen, Mage, Magus, or even Magi - Only TOGETHER Can human civilisation push back the tide of creatures that seek to subsume it."

Compared to the earlier applause, this one was more demure.

Perhaps each student thinking of their chances at the hands of Fortuna, the lady of fate. Glory or be forgotten, now was the moment of truth.

After all, the Principal had told a compelling truth. Who would not wish to possess the power of destruction and creation? Who would not desire to wield the raw elements of nature, to freeze one's foes with shards of eldritch ice? To blast apart the creatures that threatened one's home? To speed up the limitations of time itself, and at the zenith of power; laugh in the face of Death himself?

Infinite examples extolled these students. There were far too many Vid-casts they grew up on, far too many heroes whose statues adorned public squares, whose stories shaped their lives and their childhoods.

Gwen felt the memories of her old-self suffuse her present. Facing the dais and its ominous stone of destiny, something inside her chose to flee than face the music. Anxiety both her own and not her own assailed her body. She felt numb, numb for the world she found herself in, stunned by the chaos of emotions and thoughts that overwhelmed her like the flooding of a tidal pool.

Survival of humankind?

Magic to rule the world?

Cheat fate and escape death?

Gwen baulked.
WHAT KIND OF A BLOODY WORLD IS THIS?
In the beginning, there were only the Gods.
Aeons untold passed as they drifted aimlessly through the Void, until they grew bored with this state of affairs. In their infinite wisdom they brought into existence Creation, but with Creation came discord. The Gods disagreed on the nature of things: some believed their children should be guided to greater things, while others believed that they must rule over the creatures they had made.

So, we are told, were born Good and Evil.

Ages passed in fruitless argument between them until finally a wager was agreed on: it would be the mortals that settled the matter, for strife between the gods would only result in the destruction of all. We know this wager as Fate, and thus Creation came to know war. Through the passing of the years grooves appeared in the workings of Fate, patterns repeated until they came into existence easier than not, and those grooves came to be called Roles. The Gods gifted these Roles with Names, and with those came power. We are all born free, but for every man and woman comes a time where a Choice must be made.

It is, we are told, the only choice that ever really matters.”

– First page of the Book of All Things

The sun was setting on a field of corpses.

Black passed by a group of orcs building a pyre, nodding absently when they stopped piling up logs to salute – green eyes swept over the bloodied plains, taking in the devastation the Legions of Terror had wrought. Camp fires were already burning in the distance, sprawled across the hills, and by the sound of it the officers had already distributed the night’s ale rations. He would join them in time, but for a little longer he felt the need to stay here. To stand in the middle of what a decade of planning had brought forth. Callow’s standing army had been annihilated today, over two thirds of their number slaughtered before they broke ranks. The Wizard of the West had fled, his power broken. Good King Edward’s head had been popped off like a bottlecap by an ogre and the Shining Prince had been mobbed by a company of goblins until one drew a red smile across his throat. The Kingdom of Callow’s strength had been crushed in the span of an afternoon, and Black would see to it that it never recovered.

“It’s getting dark out, Black,” the voice came from behind. “You should return to camp.”

It never ceased to amuse him how a woman the size of Captain could be so eerily quiet. Even decked out in full plate, the olive-skinned woman had been noiseless in her approach. If not for the other senses that his Role afforded him, he would never have sensed her closing in. Turning to have a look at his right hand, Black raised an eyebrow when he was presented with the sight of Scribe standing next to the woman in question. Unusual of her to wander onto a battlefield, even one where the fighting was long over.

“Soon,” he agreed. “Scribe, you have a report?”

The plain-faced woman fished out a scroll from the bandolier hanging across her shoulder and handed it to him without a word. Breaking the seal absently, Black unfurled the parchment and scanned the lines. A moment passed until the barest hint of a smile quirked his lips.

“That should keep the Procer occupied for the time being,” he murmured. “By the time the fighting dies down we’ll have the border secure.”

Handing back the scroll to Scribe, he returned his attention to the battlefield. The companies assigned to the thankless work of burning the bodies would have to work through the night, at this rate. He’d have to see about arranging a rotation when he returned to camp, if sufficiently sober soldiers could be produced. A tall silhouette striding forward purposefully caught his attention as the dark-skinned man it belonged to deftly sidestepped a pair of orcs carrying a log twice the size of a grown man.

“You could have told me we were having an after-battle get together,” Warlock teased as soon as he was close enough to be heard. “I’d have brought a few bottles, though admittedly the scenery’s a little morbid for my tastes.”

Black rolled his eyes, though he caught Captain discreetly suppressing a smile. Scribe eyed Warlock with the same mild bemusement as always, as if she couldn’t believe the charmingly smiling man standing in front of them had been the one to call down a rain of hellfire on the enemy barely an hour earlier. Not an unusual reaction: sorcerers with that kind of power were rarely so jovial.

“Happenstance,” he replied. “We’ll be heading back to camp soon enough.”

Warlock cast a look around, looking for the fifth member of their little band and coming up empty.

“Ranger’s already gone?” he asked.

“As soon as the battle was done,” Captain informed him.

The dark-skinned man grimaced.

“I didn’t think she would actually…” he said, trailing off after a sideways look at Black’s face.

“What’s done is done,” the Black Knight cut through, and that was the end of that.

The four stood in silence for a long moment, watching the night slowly crawl over the fields of Streges.

“Ten years,” Black finally said.

“Six, for the earliest ones,” Scribe disagreed quietly.

With a last look at the battlefield, the Black Knight turned away without a word and started for camp. Warlock slung a friendly arm over Captain’s shoulder, murmuring something that drew a smile from the much larger woman as Scribe methodically adjusted her bandolier before following. The Dread Empire of Praes may have won the war, but the clock was already ticking. The Legions of Terrors had made a lot of angry orphans through the afternoon’s bloody work, and in time that would mean one thin. The inn was dark and empty. It stood, silent, on the grassy hilltop, the ruins of other structures around it. Rot and age had brought low other buildings; the weather and wildlife had reduced stone foundations to rubble and stout wooden walls to a few rotten pieces of timber mixed with the ground. But the inn still stood.

It was waiting. Not in a sentient, thinking way, but in the way all buildings wait. It was waiting for someone to find it. For wasn’t that the purpose of an inn? And someone did find it.

A young woman stumbled through the grass, up the hill. Her knees were shaking and she was gasping for air. Her lungs burned. Her right arm was burned. Smoke was still rising from the charred fabric on one shoulder, and her legs were bleeding. Several shallow cuts had torn open her pants at the back of the legs.

But still she climbed the hill. Because of the inn. After all, there was no mistaking it. Despite the years, the building stood among the rest of the ruins, mostly untouched by the passage of time. The construction of this inn was superior to the other buildings. Or perhaps something else had kept it standing.

Regardless, that was not what attracted the young woman to it. It was merely a thought.

The inn. In every world, the inn was a symbol. From a place to meet and rest, to a meeting point from which epic quests could begin, the inn’s hearth fire and warm glow at night was a beacon for the weary, the hungry, and the desperate. But this inn was dark.

The signboard over the inn was rotted, and years had worn whatever name it held away long ago. The windows were dark and shuttered, but the girl, the traveler, had nowhere else to go. Slowly, hesitantly, she stumbled towards the door and pulled at the simple handle on the door.

Nothing happened.

After a second, she pushed and the door creaked open. Mustering her courage, the young woman peered into the black room beyond. Her instincts told her it was a common room, a place where food or drink would normally be served. However, the inn was long deserted and a thick layer of dust covered every surface.

“Of course it’s empty.”

The intruder sighed and leaned against the doorframe, her strength exhausted. She rested her forehead on one arm, wincing as she felt her burns and the cuts on her legs. She tried not to cry. She’d known the inn was probably deserted when she’d seen it from afar. She’d known, but she’d hoped—

“Ever since I came to this world, everything’s been going wrong, huh?”

Slowly, she pushed herself back upright and walked further into the room. The inn gaped darkly around her, absorbing her footfalls, looming. It had been built to hold huge crowds of people, and it was cavernous in the night. The young woman felt as if the building might swallow her, but where else could she go?

Inside was darkness. Outside was worse. There were things outside. Monsters. She’d seen them. Monsters, and an unfamiliar world. A world that wasn’t hers.

Slowly, the girl stepped over to a chair and collapsed into it. A plume of dust rose and she burst into a fit of coughing. The dust was overwhelming. But she was tired. So very tired. And though it was empty, deserted of all life, and dark, the inn still called to her. Its walls offered some safety. So the young woman sat and closed her eyes for a moment.

It began to rain outside. A cold, hard rain that pattered on the rooftops and seeped through cracks. Tapping, dripping. The young woman’s eyes opened a crack as the pattering became a rush of sound. The shower became a heavy downpour. That was one misfortune avoided, at least.

It was peaceful. The young woman sat back and felt the pain of her injuries fade, at least for a moment. The rainfall became background noise and she felt herself relax for the first time in what felt like ages. She decided to rest here, at least to begin with. But a thought nagged at her, something she could only voice now, in safety. So she opened her eyes and addressed the empty room.

“I’m really hungry.”

Thus, the legendary tale of the Wandering Inn began.



 





